# RapidEvolutionNTP

RapidPla.c


In this project, we use Monte Carlo simulations and analytical approximations to investigate the mechanisms underlying the rapid evolution of phenotypic plasticity in a two-locus epistatic model of plasticity in population pairs inhabiting patchy habitats (adapted-maladapted). We examine the evolution at the phenotypic plasticity modifier locus and at the directly selected (target) locus, whose effect is modified by the plasticity locus, across a wide range of parameter combination.

Frequency based forward-in-time simulation. This is a two-loci two population model where before the TIME generation starts any of the population is being hit by random mutation once. After being hit by the mutation, each sub-population receives new mutant both in target and plastic locus where the sub-population size is N1 & N2 respectively. Then the population undergoes migration, selection, recombination and reproduction. Please edit "parameters" section to set above parameters as well as N1 (sub-population 1), N2 (sub-population 2), REP ( 100N, number of replicate simulations & N = N1+N2), interval (interval between migration occurs in generation), NMU (mutation rate), MIGS (migrants between the population), sel (selective pressure), REC (recombination rate), pla (relative strength of plasticity, 0-1).  The TIME is simulation time set at 100N generations to confirm that population achieves polymorphism. The heterozygosity both in target & plastic locus, average fixation & lost time for both target & plastic locus & probability of fixation time for both target & plastic locus are reported in the 'output' file. This program requires an input file 'pars1' which contains all the parameters which is mentioned above. A sample parameter file is provided.
